egu_2019/ECAS_Training_EGU19.md, before:

# Data Analysis made easy with the ENES Climate Analytics Service (ECAS)

## Training on ECAS at EGU19

Co-organized as ESSI1.18/GI2.15

Convener: **Sofiane Bendoukha**

Co-conveners: **Donatello Elia**, **Fabrizio Antonio**, Alessandro D'Anca, Tobias Weigel

Wed, 10 Apr, 08:30–10:15 (105 mins) Room -2.31


The ENES Climate Analytics Service (ECAS) enables scientific end-users to perform data analysis experiments on large volumes of climate data, by exploiting a PID-enabled, server-side, and parallel approach.

It aims at providing a paradigm shift for the European Network for Earth System Modelling (ENES) community with a strong focus on data intensive analysis, provenance management, and server-side approaches as opposed to the current ones mostly client-based, sequential and with limited/missing end-to-end analytics workflow/provenance capabilities.


## Plan
- How to access *ECAS* and log in to the JupyterHub instance at DKRZ/CMCC
- Open and execute Jupyter notebooks
- Compute and visualize **climate indices**
- (Optional) share results with B2DROP
- (Optional) access federated data from One Data repository


## Organization

* Please fill in the evaluation forms at the end of the session and give them back to the trainers.

* To log in, please use the credentials that you received when you registered.

---
**NOTE**

If you have not registered yet, ask the organizers for a default account.

---

## Setup / useful links

**ECAS Portals**

- DKRZ: https://ecaslab.dkrz.de
- CMCC: https://ecaslab.cmcc.it

**ECASLab / JupyterHub** is deployed on two sites:

- DKRZ: https://ecaslab.dkrz.de/jupyter/
- CMCC: https://ecaslab.cmcc.it/jupyter/

**Documentation**

- [Ophidia framework documentation](http://ophidia.cmcc.it/documentation/users/index.html)
- [ECASLab documentation](https://ee-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

**Github**

- https://github.com/ECAS-Lab
- https://github.com/OphidiaBigData/PyOphidia


## Explore the Jupyter environment

When you log in to JupyterHub, a workspace is created for you with following directories:

- **/data:** input data required for the workflows/notebooks
- **/notebooks:** set of ready-to-use Jupyter Notebooks with the implemented use cases
- **/workflows:** script-based workflows
- **/quickstart:** quick guide showing how to use JupyterHub and instantiate terminals in ECASLab


## Demo

### 1. Notebook

All notebooks presented during the demo are available under the **/notebooks** directory in your jupyter workspace.

1. *Subsetted map (.ipynb)*
2. *Tropical nights (.ipynb)* 
3. (Optional) *Time Series Difference (.ipynb)*

### 2. Terminal

The Ophidia Terminal is a robust, comprehensive, effective and extremely usable client, developed with characteristics similar to the bash program present in almost all Unix-like environments. In fact, besides submitting the Ophidia operators, it provides history management, embedded command help/manual, operator/command auto-completion, aliases creation and output rendering features. 

This demo will show examples of usage of the Ophidia Terminal and its main capabilities.

## Hands on

The following notebook cover more details on data processing operations using ECAS/Ophidia:

**Notebook** ECASLab-Training.ipynb

It provides step-by-step instructions on how to use the Ophidia operators as well as the PyOphidia library.

After the completion you can try to run the other notebooks available under the **/notebooks** folder or proceed with the following exercise.


## Exercise (Optional)

Starting from the daily maximum temperature, the Summer Days index is the annual count of days number of days where TX (daily maximum temperature) > 25°C

Based on the definition, try to calculate the number of Summer Days (you can start from the *Tropical_Nights.ipynb* notebook).

Useful information:
**Input NetCDF:** Same as *Tropical Nights* notebook
**25°C:** 298.15 Kelvin

---
**NOTE**
Once completed you can compare your implementation with the *Summer Days* notebook provided under the **/notebooks** folder. 

---

## Wraps Up

+ Access and Log in to *ECAS/ECASLab*
+ Compute climate indices
+ Visualize results

Commit message:

Add link to the presentation.

egu_2019/ECAS_Training_EGU19.md, after:

# Data Analysis made easy with the ENES Climate Analytics Service (ECAS)

## Training on ECAS at EGU19

Co-organized as ESSI1.18/GI2.15

Convener: **Sofiane Bendoukha**

Co-conveners: **Donatello Elia**, **Fabrizio Antonio**, Alessandro D'Anca, Tobias Weigel

Wed, 10 Apr, 08:30–10:15 (105 mins) Room -2.31


The ENES Climate Analytics Service (ECAS) enables scientific end-users to perform data analysis experiments on large volumes of climate data, by exploiting a PID-enabled, server-side, and parallel approach.

It aims at providing a paradigm shift for the European Network for Earth System Modelling (ENES) community with a strong focus on data intensive analysis, provenance management, and server-side approaches as opposed to the current ones mostly client-based, sequential and with limited/missing end-to-end analytics workflow/provenance capabilities.


## Plan
- How to access *ECAS* and log in to the JupyterHub instance at DKRZ/CMCC
- Open and execute Jupyter notebooks
- Compute and visualize **climate indices**
- (Optional) share results with B2DROP
- (Optional) access federated data from One Data repository

---
**Note**

The presentation slides can be found [here](https://github.com/ECAS-Lab/ecas-training/blob/master/egu_2019/slides/ecas_presentation_egu19.pdf)

---

## Organization

* Please fill in the evaluation forms at the end of the session and give them back to the trainers.

* To log in, please use the credentials that you received when you registered.

---
**NOTE**

If you have not registered yet, ask the organizers for a default account.

---

## Setup / useful links

**ECAS Portals**

- DKRZ: https://ecaslab.dkrz.de
- CMCC: https://ecaslab.cmcc.it

**ECASLab / JupyterHub** is deployed on two sites:

- DKRZ: https://ecaslab.dkrz.de/jupyter/
- CMCC: https://ecaslab.cmcc.it/jupyter/

**Documentation**

- [Ophidia framework documentation](http://ophidia.cmcc.it/documentation/users/index.html)
- [ECASLab documentation](https://ee-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

**Github**

- https://github.com/ECAS-Lab
- https://github.com/OphidiaBigData/PyOphidia


## Explore the Jupyter environment

When you log in to JupyterHub, a workspace is created for you with following directories:

- **/data:** input data required for the workflows/notebooks
- **/notebooks:** set of ready-to-use Jupyter Notebooks with the implemented use cases
- **/workflows:** script-based workflows
- **/quickstart:** quick guide showing how to use JupyterHub and instantiate terminals in ECASLab


## Demo

### 1. Notebook

All notebooks presented during the demo are available under the **/notebooks** directory in your jupyter workspace.

1. *Subsetted map (.ipynb)*
2. *Tropical nights (.ipynb)* 
3. (Optional) *Time Series Difference (.ipynb)*

### 2. Terminal

The Ophidia Terminal is a robust, comprehensive, effective and extremely usable client, developed with characteristics similar to the bash program present in almost all Unix-like environments. In fact, besides submitting the Ophidia operators, it provides history management, embedded command help/manual, operator/command auto-completion, aliases creation and output rendering features. 

This demo will show examples of usage of the Ophidia Terminal and its main capabilities.

## Hands on

The following notebook cover more details on data processing operations using ECAS/Ophidia:

**Notebook** ECASLab-Training.ipynb

It provides step-by-step instructions on how to use the Ophidia operators as well as the PyOphidia library.

After the completion you can try to run the other notebooks available under the **/notebooks** folder or proceed with the following exercise.


## Exercise (Optional)

Starting from the daily maximum temperature, the Summer Days index is the annual count of days number of days where TX (daily maximum temperature) > 25°C

Based on the definition, try to calculate the number of Summer Days (you can start from the *Tropical_Nights.ipynb* notebook).

Useful information:
**Input NetCDF:** Same as *Tropical Nights* notebook
**25°C:** 298.15 Kelvin

---
**NOTE**
Once completed you can compare your implementation with the *Summer Days* notebook provided under the **/notebooks** folder. 

---

## Wraps Up

+ Access and Log in to *ECAS/ECASLab*
+ Compute climate indices
+ Visualize results
